The Jeffersons?
It's over now
once and for all.
If youse don't keep
quiet over there,
I'm gonna call
the cops on youse!
Hear that? Nothing.
Them colored people
are all scared of the cops.
I'm glad they stopped.
I wonder what they was
arguing about?
Oh, who knows?
1:00 in the morning.
Maybe he was
in the mood, she wasn't.
In the mood for what?
Oh, that Archie,
he was really something.
Remember when we used
to live next door to him?
I don't wanna
think about that.
But you gotta admit,
thinking about him
helped us that night
when we were in big trouble.
Yeah, that was a night
to remember all right.
Well, we're movin' on up
Movin' on up
To the East Side
To a deluxe apartment
in the sky
Movin' on up
To the East Side
We finally got
a piece of the pie
Fish don't fry
in the kitchen
Beans don't burn
on the grill
Took a whole lot of tryin'
Just to get up that hill
Now we're up
in the big leagues
Gettin' our turn at bat
As long as we live,
it's you and me, baby
There ain't nothin' wrong
with that
We're movin' on up
Movin' on up
To the East Side
To a deluxe apartment
in the sky
Movin' on up
To the East Side
We finally got
a piece of the pie
FLORENCE:
Got your eyes shut?
Okay, Florence,
they're covered.
FLORENCE: Okay, now,
remember, don't open 'em
till I count to three.
Uh-oh! She's finally
gonna make it past two.
George!
FLORENCE: One, two...
Come on, baby,
you can do it!
FLORENCE: Three!
All right?
Why, Florence,
you look just beautiful.
Doesn't she, George?
Terrific!
You ain't even looking.
If I was looking,
I wouldn't be able
to say "terrific".
Stop teasing Florence.
Don't you know
what tonight is?
Hallowe'en?
Florence is going out
with him tonight.
Oh! Him!
And who, may I ask,
is "him"?
"Him" is just the hottest
dude this side of
Amsterdam Avenue.
He reminds me of you,
Mr. Jefferson.
Oh, he does?
Yeah. I mean,
he's so different.
He's tall,
and you're short.
He's handsome,
and you're...
Okay, I heard
enough about him.
Where is this dreamboat
taking you?
Oh, honey, we
going out bumpin'
tonight.
I could've bumped all night
Oh!
I could've bumped
all night
I haven't been out
dancing in years.
Well, why don't you make
him take you dancing?
We were going out,
but Mr. Jefferson is tired.
Well, that's what you get
when you marry
an older man.
Oh!
Ha!
Mrs. Jefferson,
you think this dress
needs something?
Yeah. A foxy lady
to wear it.
A little jewelry
might be nice.
I think I might
have something.
So, what time you
expecting him to
pick you up?
Oh, he ain't picking
me up. I'm going
to meet him.
I wouldn't let that man
waste an ounce of energy.
He's gonna need
it all later.
Florence, try these.
That's perfect!
Just what it needed.
Oh, Mrs. Jefferson,
they're beautiful!
You're sure it's all right
for me to wear?
Of course.
Thanks for
everything.
Have a wonderful time.
Look, you, them earrings
cost more than
your whole outfit.
So be careful
you don't lose them.
Don't worry, honey,
I ain't gonna lose
nothing tonight.
Including the earrings.
I hope they make her feel
as good as I did
when I got them.
Yeah, you really
liked that anniversary gift.
Birthday gift.
So what's the difference?
The difference is
you forgot our anniversary.
Look, Weezy, I ain't gotta
wait for no anniversary
to buy you things.
And besides,
if you liked them
earrings so much,
how come you let
the maid wear them?
Because she
can't hurt them,
and because she went out
tonight to have some fun,
like we were
supposed to!
Weezy, I told you
I'm beat tonight.
Oh, don't give me that.
You really didn't
want to go to
the ballet with me.
Why don't you
just admit it?
Okay, I admit it!
I didn't wanna go see
a bunch of those dudes
running around
in their drawers
on their tippy toes.
Excuse me.
It's the same
old story, George.
When I wanna do something,
and you don't,
you manage to get
tired awful fast.
Well, why the hell
do you have to
pick the ballet?
Because we've
never been to one!
We ain't never been
to a leper colony either.
That don't mean
we gotta go.
You don't understand,
do you?
Just once
I would like to do
something I wanna do,
and have you go along
without a fight!
Who's fighting?
Well, what do you call this?
Dancing cheek to cheek?
Well, I didn't
start it, you did.
There wouldn't be no fight
if you'd get off my back.
Get off your back?
I'll get off
your back, George!
your back right now!
But...
And I just walked out
and slammed the door hard.
I bet I cracked
the plaster.
Okay, so you
had a quarrel.
But slamming the door
doesn't solve anything.
No, but it felt good.
You should talk it out,
like mature adults.
I know that may be
difficult for George, but...
I don't think
that's so funny.
Oh, I'm so
sorry, Louise.
Tom!
You should be
ashamed of yourself.
I just laughed because
talking of your earrings
reminded me of
a pocketbook I gave
Helen one Christmas.
It started
a fight, too.
Oh, but that
can't happen anymore,
can it, Puss?
Not since we've been
going to our marriage
fulfillment group.
That's right, my darling.
What was wrong
with the pocketbook?
Nothing. It was beautiful.
Oh, the pocketbook
was fine.
Except it was covered
with an advertising slogan
for Tom's company.
"Pelham Publishers
Pack Passion
Into Paperbacks."
All the other office wives
loved theirs.
I'm not all the other
office wives.
Well, don't get huffy,
sweetheart.
Remember
it's not the gift,
it's the thought
that counts.
Oh, you're so
right, dear.
And that Christmas
your thought stunk.
Well, if you think
for one moment that I...
Helen, Tom, please.
Louise is right.
If we're not careful,
this could lead to a fight.
Oh, yes. Quick...
Uh, can I
do anything?
Play the bongos?
Oh...
At our encounter group,
they taught us how to
end an argument.
Contact, that's
what does it.
And communication.
Exactly.
Do you wanna make up
with George?
Of course.
Then go to the phone
this minute and call him.
Why doesn't he call me?
Well, somebody's gotta
make the first move.
Go ahead. Show him
you're bigger than he is.
I can do that just
by standing next to him.
Well, maybe
it's worth a try.
But you know George
when he's mad.
I'll bet he's down
there right now
throwing spit balls
at our wedding picture.
Everybody knows I'm home.
If I don't answer,
somebody's gonna get
suspicious and come over.
Okay. Answer it.
But you know what happens
if I hear one wrong word.
I guess that
leaves out "Help".
Oh, hi, Louise.
No, I'm not mad, Louise.
All right, Weezy.
Uh, no, I think
you better
stay up there.
I think I'm gonna be
tied up here
a little while.
Look, Weezy,
we'll work it out
later, okay?
No, I'm not mad.
Okay, then I am mad!
Right, that's right!
I'm unreasonable!
That's right,
I don't want you
to come home! Bye!
Don't come home?
Who does he think he is.
I'm going down there
and tell him...
Now, girl, don't do
anything drastic.
Helen, what would you do
if Tom told you
not to come home?
I'd kill him.
Right. So if that
little shrimp is
dead tomorrow,
you'll know
who did it.
You ain't getting away
with this, you know.
Oh, you're gonna
stop me, little man?
Okay, look, why don't you
just take what you got
and get out of here, creep?
Anybody ever tell you
you got a big mouth?
WEEZY: George, where are you?
Get out of here, Weezy!
WEEZY: Don't you
tell me what to do!
We're gonna have this
out right now!
You wanna fight, little man,
okay you've got it!
I've never seen...
I told you
not to come home.
Sorry, lady.
You should have taken
your husband's advice
and stayed out of here.
Oh, uh,
I'll take this.
And this lovely ring.
If you don't mind.
Now,
you be good
little people, right?
You know, you're giving
me a big problem.
We are giving
you a problem?
Yeah.
You got so much
good stuff out there,
I don't know
what to take next.
Damn it!
What are you doing?
I'm boogying.
What do you think I'm doing?
I'm trying to knock
the phone all the hook.
Then what?
You can't even dial
a prayer like that.
Yeah, you're right, Weezy.
Boy, if I could just
get my hands loose,
I'd show that chump.
Oh, don't get him mad.
He looks pretty rough to me.
So what? I took care
of some big dudes
in my time.
Remember what happened
to Monk Davis
that time he tried
to blackmail me.
Yeah.
A TV stereo combination.
Nope.
A dining room set.
More personal than that.
Hey, wait a minute.
I don't see nothing around
here looks that valuable.
That's because
you're sitting on it.
Where?
There!
What's the matter
with you, nigger?
You flipped?
I'm giving you a chance
to save your butt.
Now get out.
I ain't leaving here
empty-handed.
That's right!
But first...
And if that don't do it,
I still got my foot.
And if that don't work...
You're crazy!
You're crazy, nigger!
Now you're gonna force me
to tell your family!
Too late, sucker.
I already told them.
Why'd you go and do
a dumb thing like that?
Look, chump,
just get out of here!
It's people like you,
blabbermouths,
that ruin the
blackmail business.
And remember that chump
who tried to sell me those
flooded delivery vans?
You're trying to
rip me off and get
away with it, Owens?
Get out of here.
All right, now just
a minute, buster.
We got a deal,
and you're gonna stick to it.
What? Okay, buster,
try and stop me...
And JoJo,
and Whittendale.
You sure knew
how to get
rid of them, too.
Did you call
my old lady dumb?
Yeah. She's
all wet, man.
Are you
quite finished?
Not quite. Get out!
What?
You heard me!
Let the doormat
hit you where the
good Lord split you!
Yeah, you got rid of some
tough cookies all right.
But none of them
had a gun like
this one has.
Yeah.
I thought this was supposed
to be a security building?
It is secure.
Once a crook gets in,
he's secure.
Ain't nobody gonna
bother him then.
Well, what are
we gonna do?
Well, at least we can
afford to buy one of
everything he steals.
That's the good thing
about being robbed
when you're rich.
Rich. Rich.
I wish you would forget
about money once in a while.
See that's your
trouble, Weezy.
You got so
used to being poor,
we finally got some money,
you didn't like it.
It's not the money
I mind.
It's the dumb things
you do with it
that drive me crazy.
What dumb things?
You always have to have
the biggest of everything.
Like that dumb grand
piano you bought.
I got an
idea, Ralph.
You get behind,
I'll get in front.
Yes, sir.
Ready, Ralph?
Ready, sir.
Okay, when I say
"now," shove it.
Sir?
Just get behind there
and push.
Now!
I think it's beginning
to move, sir.
Be careful!
This armoire cost me
1,100 bucks.
If it falls and breaks
you can forget your tip.
Don't worry, sir,
if it does fall,
I'll throw my body
between it and the floor.
That's your trouble, George.
You overdo things.
Yeah. I just hope that
burglar ain't overdoing
things out there.
Oh, I hope he doesn't
take Uncle Ward's gift.
Oh, don't worry
about it, Weezy.
Ain't no place you can
fence a hand-painted
plastic candy dish.
There you go, putting down
my Uncle Ward again.
Look, I was just kidding,
Weezy. I like your uncle.
Not at first you didn't.
You sure gave him
a hard time,
the way you kept
calling him "Uncle Tom".
Tell me
something, George.
You like to use words
"Uncle Tom" a lot.
Only when it fits.
Do you know who
Uncle Tom really was?
Sure. He was that dumb
nigger who used to thank
Simon Legree for whipping him.
Wrong. That's another
one of those lies
about our people
that has been
accepted as truth.
Who was he then?
Super Fly in disguise?
No, George.
In real life,
Uncle Tom was a slave
named Josiah Henson,
who escaped and walked
all the way from Kentucky
to Canada with his
wife and children.
And there, he started
the first manual training
school for our people.
How you know that?
I read.
Sometimes I listen.
You could do the same thing.
Oh.
You heard of the
underground railroad?
Sure.
Well, Josia Henson
helped 100 slaves
escape up north
even before there was
an underground railroad.
He was a brave man.
A great leader.
And I'll tell you
something else, George.
I'd never call you
an Uncle Tom.
Oh, I couldn't have
been nicer to him
if he was my own uncle.
Well, that's only fair.
After all, I've put myself
out for your relatives.
What relatives?
Your mother.
Mama? Mama ain't
no trouble at all.
Mother Jefferson,
what a nice surprise.
Hello, Louise.
I was passing by
and thought I'd drop in.
Well, I'm so glad
you did.
I figured this would be
quicker than waiting
for an invitation.
Well, uh, how do you
like our new apartment?
Oh, it's lovely.
Just beautiful.
George has
such good taste
in most things.
A maid?
You're getting a maid
to look after this
itty-bitty apartment?
Yes.
Well, well,
all the years I was married,
bringing up a family
in that great big house,
we never had a maid.
What great big house?
We had a three-room walk up.
He doesn't remember.
No, you mean,
you don't remember.
Don't talk to your
mother like that.
Now don't you
pick on George!
He has enough
on his mind,
trying to think up ways
to earn enough money
to pay for your maid,
which you don't need.
Oh, you see
there, George?
Even your mother
agrees with me.
Well, on,
on the other hand...
I can understand
you wanting
somebody to
keep the place
neat and clean...
...for a change.
A four letter word
for a heavenly body.
Sun.
S-U-N-N.
Here's your Bloody Mary.
Oh, thank you, Louise.
It helps me think.
Oh, are you having trouble
with the crossword puzzle?
No, I always finish them.
Those puzzles
are tough.
You've got to
know a lot.
Oh, but I do.
I have a brain
like a sponge.
You must have
a liver like one, too.
Have a nice ride.
But I think Louise
needs a smaller seat.
No, this is regulation size.
I'm not talking about
the one on the bike.
Yeah, boy,
I got some mama.
She's funny,
ain't she, Weezy?
Yeah, she sure is.
Especially when it
comes to weddings
and engagement parties.
You listen to me,
I'm not gonna
let you marry this guy.
Why should
I listen to you?
You didn't
listen to me
when I told you
not to marry Louise.
Hey, I'm on
your side!
Oh, I'm sorry, dear.
Now see what you
made me do?
You made me say
something mean
about Louise!
But, Mama, see
what I'm trying...
Keep your hands off me!
Uh, wait, Mother Jefferson.
George didn't mean
what he said.
I'm sorry, Louise,
I am going!
George, I used to diaper you
when you were a baby.
You were a mess then,
and you're still a mess!
George, that's
your third drink.
I know that!
Well, put it down.
Mama, would you
leave me alone, please?
I said, put it down.
You've had enough.
Look, Mama,
I'm a big boy now.
I don't need you to
blow my nose for me.
Now would you
leave me alone?
George...
Oh, hi, there, Jefferson.
That ain't very nice
talking that way
to your little mammy here.
Who are you
calling Mammy?
You.
Well, don't you dare
call me Mammy!
I'm nobody's mammy!
I'm his mother!
Now if you've got
anything to say to me,
you call me
Mrs. Jefferson.
Oh, geez,
Mrs. Jefferson...
Don't talk to me.
That's telling him.
And don't you try to
make up with me, either.
But, Mother Jefferson,
what's wrong?
Let me go!
I'm getting out of here!
George, what's going on?
He called
Mama "Mammy".
Uh-oh.
Geez, I didn't think
I was doing nothing wrong.
I thought all colored people
call their mothers "Mammy".
Well, I did, Jefferson.
That's what I always heard.
Geez, Al Jolson called
his mother "Mammy" for years.
Oh, the looks on your
faces were really something.
Yeah, she really
told old Bunker, boy.
All right!
What's so funny?
Look, you don't
have to keep pointing
that gun at us.
Just take what
you want and leave.
All right.
But not more noise.
It makes me nervous.
Hmm. That's just our
lousy luck.
We don't even get
a cool cat.
We get a nervous wreck.
George, isn't there something
we can do?
Look, just be calm, Weezy.
He'll be gone soon,
and it'll be all over.
Oh, but you read about people
being robbed and killed
all the time.
Don't worry about it, Weezy.
I'm not gonna let you
get killed.
You're scared, too,
aren't you?
Well, I just hope it
ain't true that you
turn white with fear.
You never think that something
like this will happen to you.
Well, anyway, Weezy,
we can't just sit here.
We can't?
Look, just start sliding
your chair around, so we can
get them back-to-back.
Then what?
Then we'll untie the ropes
and make a run for it.
I'm afraid we gotta make
a walk for it.
I'm in no condition to run.
Rest a second.
You know,
this may be a dumb thing
to say,
but it's nice to
hold hands again.
Maybe we should do this
more often.
Oh, George, I love it
when you're like this.
Instead of being grouchy
and unreasonable.
Unreasonable?
When have I been unreasonable?
When? So many times.
I can't even begin
to count how many.
Tell me one. Just one.
How about the time
poor Edith Bunker thought
Archie was gone for good.
You'd just keep making
stupid jokes about him.
I never joke
about Archie Bunker.
Yes, you did.
Dang it, Louise.
Why do you keep sticking up
for that honky?
You hear the way
he's always bad mouthing us.
The only thing worse
than his insults is
his compliments.
"I said, Jefferson man,
you know why you people got
such natural rhythm?
"From being brought up with
all them tom-toms."
Then there's the bull about
just 'cause we black
we can't get enough sex.
We both know that's bull,
don't we, George?
You better lighten up, Louise.
But you do have rhythm.
One out of two ain't bad.
Now, you're going too far.
You hear that, Louise?
Too far!
Don't you slam my table.
What? I'll slam your table!
I'll slam your chair!
I'll slam your wall!
Anything else you want me
to slam?
Yes! The door from
the other side!
You got it!
Okay, so sometimes
I get mad and yell a little.
I don't do it all the time.
That's right.
When you can't think of
anything to yell about,
you run to your favorite
hiding place.
Where are you going?
Someplace where I can think!
George, you're talking like
a damn fool!
JENNY: That's true.
Mama...
Mother knows best, George.
All right, hold, hold, hold,
wait a minute.
Look, what is this?
Now everybody just get
off my back!
Now I am the man
of this house,
and I don't wanna hear
no more of this talk!
Understand?
What are you gonna do
about it?
What am I gonna do?
I'll tell you what
I'm gonna do!
I'm going to the john!
Oh, Mr. Jefferson.
Oh, oh.
Ooh, I love your legs.
Why don't you sit down
and let's talk this
over rationally?
Good idea.
He went into the john.
Well, you told him to
sit down.
Where do you think
you're going?
Where I don't have to
listen to you.
Oh, no, you don't.
You're not running away
from me this time.
Oh, George, open that door!
I don't have to listen
to you.
This is ridiculous.
Can you believe two
grown men acting like that?
What grown men?
They get upset
and they run to the potty.
At least I ain't
as bad as you,
getting mad and yelling,
and making a big fuss
over nothing.
When did I make a big fuss
over nothing?
Valentine's Day when
I didn't bring you nothing.
Then you let them old crazy
Willises use their encounter
techniques on us.
It worked, didn't it?
Okay, now what?
Well, just relax.
Um, why don't you start,
Louise?
Just mention whatever
comes to mind.
What am I supposed to do?
You answer her with
the first thing that comes to
your mind, without thinking.
Just like you always do,
George.
Okay, go!
Okay, uh, hot.
Cold.
Sweet.
Sour.
Good.
Me.
"Me"? How did you
come by "me"?
'Cause it's good of me
to sit through this junk.
George!
It's all right, Louise.
If that's the first thing that
came to his mind,
that's what he should say.
Now go on.
Uh, high.
Taxes.
Low.
Interest.
Money.
Trucks.
Hold it.
I know I'm not supposed
to interrupt, but what does
a truck have to do with money?
Plenty.
A truck goes by a curb,
splashes mud on suit.
Suit goes to cleaners.
I make money.
Wait a minute, you two.
The whole purpose of
this thing is to dig into
your relationship.
Yes, you must be much
more personal.
Now just forget that
we're here.
I wish I could.
Now listen you...
It was the first thing
that popped into my mind.
Start again. And this time,
make it personal.
Marriage.
Ring.
Sex.
Seven.
I said "sex."
Oh, oh, I thought
you said "six".
For a minute there
he had me worried.
The part I liked best
was the potakas.
Like that?
No. Like this.
You're right, Helen.
I feel better already.
Oh, yeah?
Get him, Louise.
Hold him. That's enough.
Now you feel much better,
Louise.
Very good.
Yes. Go on, the point is
trying to get
the juices flowing, that's it.
You know something, Willis?
For once in your life,
you're right.
I feel much better now.
Me, too.
That's the whole point,
you see?
You've gotten rid of
that anger. Now you can
speak freely and easily.
And clear up any problem,
no matter how big,
without fighting.
Good. Is this what
they do at those meetings?
Oh, sometimes.
Well, me and Weezy
ain't gotta go then.
When we get uptight,
we'll just beat
each other's brains in.
That's not fair
because Louise
will always finish first.
Well, I guess we can go now.
May we have our potakas back?
No, wait a minute.
I got one little teeny piece
of anger to get rid of yet.
Oh, go ahead,
let her have it.
Ow!
Hey, you can't do that!
Why not? You said
it's good for everybody.
That's right.
Oh, George, I'm gonna
do something.
Stop it! Stop it, I said!
You ought to be ashamed
of yourselves, fighting like
that on the Lord's day!
Florence, how would you
like it if I never got
mad at you again?
That would be a blessing.
And how would you like it
if you never got mad at me?
Now that would be a miracle.
Okay, stay right there
a minute.
There.
I wish I had a club right now
I could hit that crook with.
What's he doing
out there anyway?
Messing up the place?
Don't worry about that.
Florence will help me
straighten it up.
Hey, remember when
we first hired Florence?
Yeah.
But there's just one thing.
Do you folks mind if
I ask you something?
No, go right ahead.
Now you live in
this apartment, right?
Uh-huh.
And you got an apartment
in this building, too?
Yes, that's right.
Well, how come we overcame
and nobody told me?
Yeah. And now nobody can't
tell her nothing.
Doorbell! Will somebody
get the door?
Will somebody
get the door,
Florence?
I wish you would
make up your mind.
Either you want dinner
or you want doors.
'Cause if you want both,
you want another maid.
Hello, Florence.
Hello, Mrs. Jefferson.
They're in the bedroom.
Would you tell them
I'm here, please?
She's here!
How about a Bloody Mary?
No, thanks. I don't
drink while I'm working.
Hey, is somebody
gonna get that door?
Why do you think
I pay you?
Evidently, to get rid
of your small change.
You know,
in my building,
the roaches are so big
that when you step on 'em,
the crunch drowns out
the television.
And they just go "splat"!
Oh, you're wasting your time,
because there ain't no woman
who no match for no man.
Ha! You're wrong
about that, honey.
Just come at me.
This is the most
ridiculous thing...
Pah-poom!
The hell kind of
fighting is that?
Dirty.
The same way
the muggers fight.
Now get on your feet,
turkey.
Ah! Hey!
And here's how we call
for the police.
Ah!
That's very good, Florence.
Are you all right, George?
Are you kidding?
I just been attacked
by the bionic maid.
Anyway, I'm glad I loaned
Florence my earrings tonight.
At least they won't
get stolen.
Yeah. I wish she
was wearing the TV set.
Somebody's at the door.
Oh, thank God.
Maybe we're saved.
With our luck, it's probably
the Avon lady calling.
That's just like George.
He knows it's us,
so he won't open the door.
Maybe they made up
and went out.
No, he's still in there.
I can hear him breathing.
Listen.
Oh, now, that's really rude.
I just heard him
bolt the door.
I heard you do that,
George!
I'm surprised Louise
let him do it.
I bet she didn't even see him.
She's probably busy
in the kitchen.
Well, come on.
Let's go.
Have you ever noticed
how their arguments
always end up as
our arguments?
George, why do we
have to fight so much?
If we have a problem,
why can't we just talk it
through like Tom and Helen?
They don't fight.
They don't fight 'cause
they're scared to fight.
What's that supposed
to mean?
You know damn well
what it means.
If you two ever really
started going at
one another,
inside of five minutes,
he'd be calling you...
Don't say it!
Nigger!
Pete's sake!
Now, you listen to me.
We've had lots of fights,
and it's never happened.
Oh, don't tell me
it never crossed your mind.
No more than it ever crossed
my mind to say the word
"honky" to Tom.
Ha! Well, how come
you said it just then?
Come on, dear, let's go.
That's the best idea
you've had all day.
Ah, they're gone.
Yes, lucky for you,
you know when to keep
your mouth shut, buster.
Hey, you were
a real good boy.
Don't do that, turkey!
George...
You better listen to her,
buster, she's smart.
When you going
to get out of here?
Just as soon as
my bags are packed.
I wonder who it was
at the door.
Probably that
weird old Bentley.
Well, I'm glad
he went away.
I wouldn't like
to see him get hurt.
He ain't gonna get hurt.
He'd just put that kook
to sleep with one of
his dumb stories.
I'll never forget
my first bicycle.
A sleek racer with
distinctive red stripes,
and a little bell that went
ching-a-ding!
Ching-a-ding-ding!
Ching-a-ding!
I bet you got a big kick
out of riding it.
Oh, no, I never
rode it at all.
Why?
It was stolen
the very first day
I had it.
Oh.
Yes, I've often wondered
what became of it.
And then one day,
five years later,
I was strolling along
the beach at Brighton
when suddenly I saw
a bicycle which had
been washed ashore.
It was all rusted over,
but there were still flecks
of red paint on it.
Don't tell me it was
your bike.
Oh, no, it was a lady's bike.
But had it been mine,
wouldn't that have made
a remarkable story?
Okay, Weezy, it looks like
we gotta do it
all by ourselves.
Let's work on these ropes.
Oh, it, it's no use.
They won't budge.
Four years in the Navy
learning how to tie knots.
How come they don't teach you
how to untie them?
I don't like to think
about your Navy days.
That was the longest
we've ever been apart.
Well then think of the
good part when I came
home on leave.
Yeah, just you and me.
We sure did a lot
of walking in the park.
And a lot of resting
in the bushes.
Sometimes I think a hot dog
at Coney Island was more fun
than the fancy restaurants
we go to now.
Oh, don't be silly, Weezy.
Being rich is much more fun.
You don't like remembering
when you were poor,
do you, George?
That's why you have
those nightmares anytime
something goes wrong.
Well, now that that's
all cleared up,
don't you feel better now?
No! 'Cause that's
the good part of the dream.
I kept slipping down
that ladder,
and then all of a sudden
I was in the subway.
Did you have a token,
or did you sneak in
under the turnstile?
I fell in through the roof,
right into the middle of
the A train!
It was full of zebras.
I mean, there was
zebras everywhere.
Snorting, and stomping,
and chewing and messing up
the place.
Weezy, ain't nothing uglier
than an A train
full of zebras.
I'm not gonna explain
that one to you, George.
And then at the first stop
I got off,
and I ran onto
the up escalator,
only it was going down.
Somebody switched signs on me.
'Cause right next to me was
a down escalator
with a bottle of champagne
with a white label on it.
And the bottle
was going up, up, up.
And I was going down,
down, down.
And at the bottom, you ain't
gonna believe this, Weezy.
At the bottom was
all of these cockroaches,
yelling and waving,
"Welcome back, George."
Weezy...
George...
Weezy!
Where were you?
Here.
Why wasn't you there?
Where?
In my dream! I needed you!
Oh, you had a nightmare.
The worst.
I was walking down the street
and everybody was
the same color.
It was terrible.
Why?
Because I couldn't tell
the white blacks from
the black blacks.
Oh, George.
Wait, that's just
the beginning.
Then suddenly everybody
started chasing me.
And I ran and ran until
I got to Monticello,
in the midst of
this great big party.
And Thomas Jefferson was there
playing the violin.
Well, what's so bad
about that?
He was using me as the bow.
Scraping me back and forth.
Back and forth,
back and forth.
Did you sound good?
Terrible. Only thing
we could play was Dixie.
Go to sleep, George.
Okay.
What are you doing?
This time you're going
with me.
You know, Weezy, when you
got it as good as we do,
you don't like to think back
because you're afraid
it's gonna hurt.
But it don't hurt at all.
I mean, we got a lot to think
back on, don't we?
Yeah. Even the bad times
seem good at a time
like this.
Hmm. Even old Archie Bunker
would look good to me now.
Remember when we moved in
next door to him?
Oh...
You know what just crossed
my mind?
Remember old man McNab?
Yeah.
He used to live down
the street there?
Remember the time that
he was gonna sell his place
to them Jews?
Oh.
And you come around with
that petition for
all the rest of us to sign.
Remember, to keep them out?
And we all signed it, huh?
Yeah.
You really saved the block
that time, Jim.
Well, you know me.
So, I mean, you wouldn't
then turn around
and, and do what McNab
was trying to do, would you?
You mean sell to Jews?
Yeah.
Oh, no.
No.
These people are Baptists.
Right, right.
Oh, that's nice.
Hello, Mr. Bowman,
I just talked with
the telephone company,
and they're putting
my phone in today.
Now I really believe
the house is mine.
Oh, hi, neighbor.
Archie...
My, you got here early.
Well, I wanted to get
right to work.
Oh, by the way, would it be
too much trouble to borrow
a pail from you?
I forgot to bring one.
Oh, sure.
Oh, you got your work
cut out for you.
I don't think that house
has been cleaned since
his wife died three years ago.
And way before that.
Bowman and his wife
was always slobs,
the both of them.
Archie. I'll get the pail.
Thank you.
Hurry up in there,
will you, Edith?
Well, uh,
how'd you like the
Juliashow last night?
Fine.
How did you like Doris Day?
Oh, you're in!
No, I ain't. I'm out.
But you're on my stoop.
That's the same as
being in my house.
Stoops don't count.
Stoops always count.
Stoops never count.
Don't turn your back on me!
Oh, there you are.
Back in!
Now, you're in,
you're in for sure.
So finally,
the great Jefferson,
who always reclined
to cross my threshold
is into the house.
All duded up with a flower
in his lapel there.
Or is that one of them things
that squirt in your eye?
No, it's real.
I wear a fresh one every day.
Oh, you don't blow money
on a fresh flower every day.
No, I steal one every day
from a blind flower girl.
Oh, he's joking.
George, they don't
know you here. He's joking.
Louise.
I'll tell them
when I'm joking.
I was joking.
Archie, are you in bed yet?
ARCHIE: No, not yet, Edith,
I'm looking out the window.
You know, the Jeffersons
left their shades up.
Did you know they was putting
new wallpaper on the wall
of their bedroom?
Holy cow, them coloreds
are wild about stripes.
Bunker, come down here!
ARCHIE: That don't sound like
your voice, Edith.
No, Archie, we got company.
Yeah, so I see.
Thanks for letting me know.
Yeah, those Bunkers were
something else, weren't they?
Yeah. But I still miss Edith.
She was so upset
when we moved out
of the neighborhood.
Louise? I bought you
some fruit for your trip.
We're only
going to Manhattan.
Well, subways break down
sometimes.
Well, Edith,
I guess this is
really goodbye.
I know.
Well, I'll just say so long.
So long, Edith.
Louise,
did I ever tell you
I love you?
Every minute
we've spent together.
You'd better go now,
before the both of us
get awful wet.
Bye, Louise.
I mean, so long.
What seems to be
the hold up in here?
You still haven't finished
packing yet?
Uh, just one more thing.
Your coffee mug.
I won't be drinking out
of mugs no more.
From now on,
it's cups and saucers
all the way.
Come on, Louise,
the limousine is waiting.
Limousine?
Have you gone crazy?
What do we need
a limousine for?
Because we're gonna leave
Bunkersville in style.
Come on, Weezy.
Things are looking good
for us.
Look, you deserve the best.
And that's exactly what
you're gonna get. The best.
Okay?
Here.
I wish that chump out there
would move to
a new neighborhood.
Oh, I just thought of
something awful.
Worse than him?
Yeah, what will happen if
we want to go to the bathroom?
I wish you hadn't said that.
Well, still behaving
yourselves?
That's nice.
When are you gonna
get out of here?
What, are you kidding?
I haven't even started
on the bedrooms yet.
Oh, hey, lady,
you're a good cook.
Thank you.
That reminds me,
I'm starving.
Just like old times,
huh?
Yeah. Remember those
chocolate cakes you
used to make? Mmm...
I remember what you tried
to do with one of them.
Look, I know what you're
thinking, Bunker. But I'm
talking about all the people.
Blacks, browns,
yellows and whites.
How come you put the
whites last?
Look, I just wanna help
the community.
Edith, the phone.
Well, if you wanna
help the community,
you can bring the prices
down in your store there.
EDITH: Hello?
I mean, $12 to fix
that hole, that's a disgrace.
Yeah, Louise,
he's here.
Oh...
Louise wants to know
what happened to her
chocolate cake.
Oh, the cake, huh?
Tell Louise that George is
over here trying to
buy votes with it.
Yeah, I'll tell him,
Louise. Goodbye.
Louise wants to see you
back home right away.
Imagine that. Only one day
in politics, and already
he's stealing and bribing.
And now he expects
me to sign this
here petition of his.
Look, I hear you loud
and clear, Bunker. And I
don't need you anyway.
You ain't the only
honky on the beach.
Can you beat that?
A guy comes waltzing in
here with a petition.
Wants me to
sign the thing
without even reading it.
Now, I mean,
he takes the cake.
Yeah. Archie could
drive you mad.
But at least he was
the devil we knew.
When we moved here I was
so worried about the new
people we were going to meet.
And then the first
neighbor we met
was Mr. Bentley.
He was so nice
and friendly.
And weird.
Oh, yes!
Ah, that's it! Right there.
Oh, that's heavy.
Any particular reason
why we're doing this?
It's the only thing
that seems to help my back.
Marvelous.
It's working, it's working.
It worked.
Thank you, Mr. Jefferson.
You have kind feet.
Well, anything I can do
for you, don't hesitate
to ring my bell.
Buh-bye.
What the hell was that?
George, I believe
you were right about
this place after all.
Imagine, an English neighbor.
Good God, you're black.
Something wrong with that?
Oh, no! No, I just
didn't notice before.
Well. Jambo!
Did you say "samba"?
No, no. Jambo,
it's Swahili.
Actually, it means "hello".
I never can remember
the word for "goodbye".
You think Mr. Bentley
is weird?
Have you ever
taken a good
look at us?
What are you talking
about? Ain't nothing
strange about us.
Oh, no?
You wanna try it again?
Well...
Knock, knock.
Who's there?
George Jefferson!
Well, Weezy,
what do you think?
I think you should pick
door number three.
Oh, George,
you all right?
Of course I'm all right.
What are you two
doing here?
Just visiting, Snoopy.
Are you sure we're
putting this on right?
I think so.
Wait a minute,
Mrs. Jefferson.
This thing is heavy.
Well, I'm gonna
have to carry it.
Let it go, Florence.
All right...
Lord have mercy!
Can I open my
eyes now, George?
If I was you, I would
keep them closed.
Reach!
Oh, my goodness!
It's my boxer shorts
from the Navy. I ain't
seen these in years.
What's that?
Oh, that's my cup.
Your cup?
How in the heck do
you drink out of that?
That Florence. You never
know what she's
gonna say or do.
Like that time
I told her all I wanted
was a good maid.
And you certainly
got one.
Hello, George.
Where's Florence?
She's in her room.
Good...
Good evening,
Master Jefferson, sir.
What are you wearing?
Why, this is my new
maidin' uniform.
I's bought it today, sir.
Why? Are we having
pancakes for dinner?
Oh, that's funny.
You the funniest
man, Mr. Jefferson.
Ain't he funny,
Mrs. Jefferson?
If he were any funnier,
they'd put him away.
Um, um! You give me
them shoes, Master Jefferson.
For what?
They need shining!
Look, Florence...
Now just let me help
you take them off.
Look, Florence, you
don't have to do that.
Oh, I don't mind.
Just lift your little foot.
Look, you ain't supposed to
be shining nobody's shoes.
Why? Don't you think I
can do a good job?
Well, sure you could, but...
Well, then just let me
help you take them off.
Florence, you get
off my shoes.
Oh, Lord, mercy me!
I done made you mad!
Youse disappointed in me.
No, I ain't. I...
I'm sorry, boss!
Florence! Hey!
Stop it, Florence!
Will you get this
woman off me?
Oh, please now,
don't be mad!
Hey!
I'll get it!
We've had some good
times here, George.
Yeah.
Lionel and Jenny
got married here.
I thought you were
remembering the good times.
Well, it was touch and
go with Lionel before
we got that far.
Oh, look at this guy
with his suitcase. What,
are you moving in, too?
Hell, no. This is
Lionel's suitcase.
I wanna get him out of here
as soon as possible.
If he wants to stay in
a motel, here's the
money to pay for it.
I don't want him asking
for nothing from this house.
If my son wants to run
away, I can afford it.
Don't pay him any attention,
Archie, he's crazy.
What?
He's not going to any
motel. He's staying here!
He ain't gonna shame me
by staying here.
Louise, I think
your husband's right.
George, I want you to
apologize to our son.
We don't have a son,
Louise.
But don't worry. We can
start all over again.
You can give me another boy.
You better call Parcel Post,
'cause I've stopped
making deliveries.
I don't wanna hear this.
Remember Lionel's
graduation day?
Everything went just perfect.
Yeah, he got perfectly drunk.
Drunk? I didn't know that.
I know you didn't.
Well, isn't this nice?
No.
Don't you two have
anything else to say?
Oh, sure.
Lionel!
What the heck is
wrong with you?
It is your suit,
Mr. Jefferson. I've fallen
in love with this suit.
The style, the fabric,
the lining.
Oh, the lining is
doing it do death!
You know what
else I think?
You know what else I think?
Do you have to
think so loud?
Well, uh, uh, uh...
I was thinking, Mr.
Jefferson, that I... I have
always admired you.
Uh, uh...
A self-made man
who came up the hard way.
All the way from nothing.
Now you've got five
cleaning stores.
Six.
Six! That's right.
And who knows? Maybe someday
they'll be seven or eight.
But, see the point is,
Mr. Jefferson,
you did it by yourself.
And to think, it started out
in a cotton field in Alabama
46 years ago.
Forty-five.
No!
That's even more remarkable.
To get this far so soon?
Why, you're still a young man,
Mr. Jefferson.
Young looking, too. You know,
if I didn't know you,
I'd never guess
you were old enough to
be Lionel's father.
I know why she's out
of breath, but why are
you breathing so hard?
I can't help myself.
I get carried away
when I'm...
When I'm this
close to you.
And he and Jenny
had their problems
along the way, too.
Jenny, I don't
understand this.
Oh, come on, Mama.
Come on, now. Get down.
Uh, look, Jenny, your mother
told me you were crying
as though your
heart was breaking.
Well, you know how Mama
likes to exaggerate.
Come on, Pop, get down.
Exaggerate?
I did not exaggerate.
Something was going on
between you and Lionel.
Yeah, well, uh,
nothing much.
We had a disagreement,
that's all.
That's all?
Yeah, but, we came to
an understanding.
You see, Helen,
there's no problem.
What kind of understanding?
Jenny, what kind of
understanding?
The wedding is off.
What?
Look, here, Jenny...
Tom, will you stop dancing?
Do you have any objections
to your daughter marrying
Lionel?
Of course not.
Lionel's a
fine young man.
In spite of
his father.
Well, do you have any
objections to your son
marrying Jenny?
It ain't that. It's just
the kind of wedding he's
throwing that I object to.
Well, that's such a silly
thing to argue about.
The basic wedding ceremony
is very simple.
And it's quite beautiful.
You see, all the minister
has to do is say,
"Lionel,
do you take Jenny to
be your lawful wedded wife?"
And then
Lionel would say...
I do.
And then he would say,
"Jenny, do you take Lionel
"to be your lawful
wedded husband?"
And then Jenny
would say...
I do.
You see?
It's all very simple.
And as long as it's
witnessed by two people,
like those over there,
then all the minister
has to do is say,
"By the power
vested in me by
the state of New York,
"I now pronounce you
man and wife."
Oh, my baby!
Weezy, now what's
wrong with you?
I always cry at weddings.
If you're crying now,
what you gonna do at
the real wedding?
George, this is
the real wedding!
What?
She's right, George.
Our children are married.
They're what?
You mean that was it?
Lionel, how could you
do this to me?
'Cause I love you, Pop.
And you know I just didn't
wanna get married without
you being there.
Married? Without a band?
And I love my daddy.
Did you really marry them?
Nope. They married
each other.
I just performed
the ceremony.
Oh, George...
Oh, don't cry, Weezy.
Think of the good side.
What good side?
We're together.
You and me.
Weezy, if we ever
get out of this jam,
there's something I
want you to do.
What's that?
Get the tickets
for the ballet.
You want to see
grown men
on tippy toes?
No, I just want to say
I'm sorry for some
of the fights we've had.
Some of them?
Well, sometimes
you do jump to
the wrong conclusion.
All right, George,
what have you got
to say for yourself?
Oh, good morning, love.
Sorry I woke you up.
Had to get up early.
It's no good, George.
I know where you've been
and what you've been doing.
You do?
Of course I do.
You think I'm blind?
Now, take it easy, Weezy.
I can explain everything.
Try.
Look, before I go any further,
I want you to know that I've
been doing it for both of us.
You what?
And it ain't been easy.
I'll bet!
You don't understand.
I understand everything.
All those late hours
and mysterious phone calls,
tired all the time.
Now, look, honey...
You save that honey
for your other woman!
What other woman?
Don't try to act innocent.
You've got another woman.
Another woman?
Don't deny it.
You're having a
middle-age fling.
It happens to lots
of men.
I can understand that.
Oh, you can?
Certainly.
And I'm mature enough
to take it.
Oh, you are?
Well, in that case,
you're right.
It is another woman.
And sometimes you don't
figure out what's happened
until it's nearly too late.
Huh?
Remember your old Navy buddy?
Now, let's get
something straight,
Wendell.
You'd better keep
away from me.
Hey, Louise...
Don't you
"Hey, Louise" me.
You're supposed to be
George's best friend.
Where do you get off
making passes at me,
and right under his nose, too?
Hey, easy, Mama!
The only reason I haven't
said anything earlier
is because I didn't wanna
hurt George's feelings.
But if you put your hand on me
one more time,
you're gonna
draw back a nub!
Oh, no, no,
you got me wrong.
I ain't gonna use my hands.
Look? Look?
Whoo-whee!
I like a woman with
a little fire.
Now I'm warning you, Wendell,
you take one more step
and I'll let loose
with the loudest scream
you ever heard!
Hey, that sounds groovy.
Because we both understand
that a no means yes!
Not in this house
it don't!
Yeah. Wendell was hitting
on you, and Mama
was hitting on him.
Yeah, that was
quite a night.
You know something, Weezy?
Maybe you never noticed this,
but sometimes I don't
appreciate you enough.
Really?
How many years have
you known Mom?
I don't know.
Twenty-five, 26...
What does it
matter now?
It's all dirty water
under the bridge.
And how many times
has she lied to you?
Weezy never lied to me.
You see?
She just never
told me things she
didn't want me to know.
You know she loves you.
What's that got to
do with it?
Louise loves everybody.
A-ha!
Look, don't you
a-ha me.
There've been enough
a-ha's for one day.
Pop, remember when any of
the old neighbors in Harlem
used to get sick?
Who was it who always
looked after them?
Your mother.
That's another one
of Weezy's faults.
Always helping people.
And stray cats and dogs.
Yeah, and stray cats.
Always petting them,
and hugging them,
and picking them up.
And feeding them better
than she feeds me.
Yeah, I guess you're right.
Mom is, um...
Too sentimental.
Mmm-hmm.
She'd hug an rhinoceros
if it was lost.
There's something I wanna say.
Yes, I wanna say something
to you, too.
Would you let me say
my say first?
Uh, sorry, George.
Well, when I went
out of here before,
I went over to Mama's.
You went crying
to your mother?
I didn't go crying,
I went mad!
Oh, I thought it was
the wife who was always
supposed to run away to Mama.
Will you cut it out
before I get mad again?
Anyway, she told me
something about you.
Oh, I bet she did.
No, I mean
something nice.
Oh.
She knew you were jiving
this morning about us going
out with the Hendrickses.
She did?
Mmm-hmm. She read it
in your face.
So I got to
thinking.
No matter how much
you wanted us to
be alone together,
you had trouble
making up that story.
That's right. That's like
what I wanted to tell you,
George. You see...
Will you hush up?
Anyhow, I can
see it plain now.
If you can't lie
for yourself,
then I had no business
asking you to lie for me.
Thank you, George.
Now what you
got to say?
Oh, it doesn't matter. I
think you nearly said it.
Good.
See your trouble, Weezy,
is you were born honest.
You know?
I guess that's one of
the reasons I feel
about you the way I do.
Oh? What way is that,
George?
Well, you know,
I told you before.
What did you
tell me before?
You know,
something nice.
You mean that
I'm beautiful?
No.
You mean
I'm not beautiful?
No, I didn't say that.
Well, you better
say something.
All right.
I love you.
Oh, George...
Oh, I love you, too.
Happy anniversary.
Happy anniversary, Weezy.
You're a good woman.
A very good woman.
You know,
you really deserve me.
I think I heard him
coming back.
Can you hear him?
No.
Look, I don't care
what that turkey steals
out there, Weezy.
As long as he
don't hurt you.
Oh, George.
I don't think I could
live without you, Weez.
He's coming for us!
Don't panic, Weezy.
I'll get him.
I ain't cleaning up
after no wild party.
Oh...
That place looks like
it's been looted.
Florence, quick, untie us!
I never thought
the day would come
when I'd be glad
to see you.
Is he still out there?
Who?
The burglar!
What burglar?
The front door's wide open,
and there ain't nothing
out there but a big mess.
Thank God he's gone.
What happened?
Who did it?
How did he get in?
What did he look like?
How come your hands
don't work as fast
as your mouth?
We don't know who it
was, but thank God you
came back.
Oh, how... Why did you
come back so soon?
What happened to
your date?
That ugly, no-account
turkey didn't show up.
You said he was smart.
I think I'll untie
you first.
How long you
been like this?
Oh, I don't know.
It seems like hours.
Just you and him?
You poor woman.
What did you do
all that time?
Oh, we talked.
Talked?
About what?
Oh, Florence,
it was beautiful.
I was scared to
death tonight,
but I'll always cherish...
It ain't none of your
damn business
what we talked about!
I was trying to get us loose
so I could catch that crook.
What we talked about
don't matter.
Mr. Jefferson's right.
We were pretty busy.
That's why I guess I
can't remember anything
we talked about.
Well, don't just
stand there, untie me!
What?
Hey, Weezy, where you going?
Hey, wait a minute.
I gotta go to the bathroom!
Movin', movin'...
We movin' on up
To the East Side